# TO DO LIST
#### Video Demo:  <https://app.screencastify.com/v3/watch/SO91AllArp5FuZCB6vS7>
#### Description:
This is a web app that utilizes python, javascript, html, css with a flask server and sqlite3 database. The user is allowed to create and delete tasks which each contain an id, day, description and status. The day can be set using a button dropdown menu that highlights in  green the day that the task is to be set too. The description can be set through a form which triggers a javascript function which sends data to the flask server through fetch and storing the data through a JSON object. The status can be toggled to indicate complete or incomplete through an onclick function that also has a fetch request to the backend by getting the id of the task which status was changed, and altering the status of that row in my SQL database. I also added front-end styling to the buttons so that the buttons would show green for complete and red for incomplete, which also required jinja if statements. The create button pulls a set of variables that I have set through javascript, such as the day, description, and status, as well as pulling from a global count variable which tracks the amount of tasks and increments it, and posts it to my flask server through fetch as well. The delete button functions similarly, taking the id of the most recently created task and deleteing from the table through a post request from fetch as the delete button is clicked. I decided to go through this way of using fetch as I had already built the front-end and I thought the integration would be a lot easier instead of creating various route through flask. My table which renders all the tasks is generated using a flask route that grabs all of the tasks stored in my database, and render each one using a for loop. All of these changes are saved and reflected in the sql database, meaning if the user reloaded the page their changes would be saved. The integration of the front-end and back-end certainly could have been less sloppy as this was my first time using fetch, and I often found my self running into various errors of JSON syntax and making sure my post requests went through and was receieved by the back-end. I ran into some trouble with CORS, and had to research had to get around that as well, which was completely foreign to me. Initially, I was planning on using the button dropdown with the various days to display seven distinct agendas, like a calender for the week displayed seperately, but I ultimately decided to condense them down to a list which displays tasks that have been given a day as I was struggling with SQL. Overall, I am very satisfied with how my application responds to the users inputs, such as the button group reacting to set the highlighted day in green, and the Complete/Incomplete button turning red and green to reflect the status of the task.

I made sure to follow the proper structure of a flask program, with a static folder containing my Javascript files(which contain several functions), and my styles.css. I made another folder called templates which house index.html(provides the general structure of my program, nav bar, dropdown buttons, cards, etc) that doesnt change, and table.html, which contains more logic such as for loops and if statements as it needcs to generate and additional row of my table for every single task in my database. I have a single table in agenda.db which has four columns(id, date, description, status), and the database is accessed and modified quite frequently by my flask server. In app.py houses my flask server and routes as well as a connection to my table in agenda.db. I have serval routes of POST as my database is often being manipulated, but only one GET route as I only display one main page for the agenda.

Looking forward, there are several aesthetic improvements I can make as well as implementing the idea of seven distinct tables for the week, and even for the month. I beleieve this experience has made me a much more efficient debugger, as I have grown accustomed to digging through the chrome developer tools to diagnose a problem.

TO DO LIST
LOGAN SUNDARAM
UNITED STATES, CALIFORNIA, BAY AREA
AUGUST 14TH, 2024

logansundaram GITHUB
loganrs EDX

